Here we go. Cardiff Cardiff Hall 25th Anniversary Project.
interviewer Steve Fletcher, interviewee Justine Goulding.
The location is number one Yersinian Avenue in Pont Canna Cardiff.
Today's date is the 21st of October 2015
and before we start Justine, would you be kind enough to spell your name in full?
That's J-U-S-T-I-N-E
G-O-U-L-D-I-N-G.
Thank you very much. Well done, that's correct.
So how did you first get involved in the Cardiff Carnival?
Well, I knew yourself and
so I wanted to get involved in some of the dance projects
that initially attracted me to the Swicker Carnival.
And I joined the...
A group of fire dancers was the theme for it
and we all had costumes made for us by some of the lovely people
and I had to go there every evening to learn how to dance this particular routine.
And the carnival camp at that time would have been at Catay's Community Centre?
Yes, that's right.
And obviously the parade has followed various different routes during the years
but in that year we would have ended the parade with a choreographed piece of sorts
on the steps of the National Museum at night time
and generate a big, big audience.
Do you remember any of that, being on the steps of the National Museum?
Yeah, I do actually, yeah.
I remember being up on the left hand side as you're looking at it
and standing up on the top steps looking down over everybody
and having brought large crowds with us from the whole parade as we walked through
and looking out over all the people and seeing all the smiling faces.
So that was kind of carnival number one for you
but you were back the next year, less so as a dancer.
What was your next role?
Yeah, when I came back the next time, I'm quite into the arts and I did a degree in art
so I decided I fancied doing one of the amazing costumes
and I wanted to have a backpack costume which is one of the larger ones
and I think the theme was, what was it, water or rain or something
but I ended up doing a massive umbrella larger than life
which I made out of withy sticks and had lots of rain coming down on the inside of it
which all twinkled as I danced around underneath.
Yeah, it was really good actually, when you get all the atmosphere when you're at the camp
at Cotets and everybody's getting all ready together
and jeeing each other up and finishing each other's face paints
and then somebody came along that year, I remember spraying everybody's shoes
so even their shoes were all...
Attention to detail, very important.
Yeah, nothing was wrong.
Took us a few years to discover that, didn't it?
Yeah, it was lovely and then by the time everybody's got their faces done
and all their costumes on and the atmosphere was amazing before you start,
everybody was really excited and just really looking forward to jeeing up the audience
as you go through the town and taking a weird, securitas route
which is bumping to different people all the time and they don't know that you're coming
and they just hear the drums in the distance and then you turn up and they're like
taken over by this massive carnival with all these different people in various costumes
all going past and there's just like some kind of surreal event happening to them.
It's great.
Of course, Cotets Carnival was in your early role in Swicka in the mid-90s.
You of course left your mark on Barry Carnival.
Can you remember a little bit about that for us?
It was the lantern parade, wasn't it?
So I think Terry Chin taught us all how to bend all the sticks
and make various lanterns which weren't going to catch fire as soon as we put a flame inside them
which I thought was amazing considering they're made out of wood and paper
the key ingredients for a little fire
but apparently Swicka didn't mind about that at the time and that was OK.
But more importantly they had a hole in it.
It was before health and safety was invented.
It kind of was but it wasn't, was it?
There's a little hole in the top so that they didn't burn
and that was the only thing you had to make sure that you had.
You could have any shape or size you liked and you could have a number of candles inside.
Whatever you did, wherever the flame was, there'd have to be an air vent at the top
so that the heat could escape out and wouldn't set the whole thing on fire.
That was fun. I was working as one of the tutors then
helping all the little kids in Barry make their lanterns ready for the parade.
It was good.
And of course your stint there with us at Caddickston House
you were saying was a small step in which ultimately became your creative career.
Tell us more.
Yeah, that's right.
After having done that then they offered me some evening classes
teaching ceramics in Caddickston House
and that was the spur really for me to take on PGCE in art and design
and now I've been a teacher in secondary education for 16 years teaching art and design.
So that sort of set me off on that path really.
That's fantastic. Justine, can I just say I award you the title of Cardinal Hero.
Thank you very much indeed for those memories.
Thank you.
Ciao.